it is very interesting to see while Ford
has done the same thing in Ontario that
Ford and pev have really become the
voice of the working class and I see the
thing is you kind of see that with Trump
in the US too and I think it maybe it's
because we've actually developed the
realization on the classic liberal and
conservative front that there is no
better pathway forward for rectifying
the economic misery of the poor than the
free market system and so to the degree
that that's the case and now I think the
case for that is unassailable unless
you're criminally literally criminally
blind that it's easy now for cons the
conservatives who used to be the party
of big business let's say which is kind
of what they were when I was a young guy
to be speaking directly to the working
class is we're going to declutter the
system we're going to get rid of the
idiot environmental taxes that do
nothing but make your life more
difficult and increase pollution and
we're going to serve you and I think
Paul has done that very effectively now
can you
envision how do you feel about the unity
let's say of the conservative movement
in Canada now there's a number of
conservative Premier who seem to be
ideologically on board with your
approach there's Scott Mo and Blaine
higs and and so at minimum and so and
and I don't know what your relationship
is like with Doug Ford and then we have
Paulie of course who's a rising star and
is very much likely to be the next prime
minister I mean so what's is your view
of Canada's future at the moment
optimistic fundamentally and if it's
optimistic what is that optimism
tempered by let me just add one more
preamble to that see I'm afraid that
what's going to happen is that the
Canadian economy is far worse than
people think and that we're going to
discover a lot of things under the
carpet that were hidden by the Trudeau
government now the evidence of that is
he has a bloody Scandal every week that
should be sufficient to bring down his
government like the last Scandal we just
had about the airlifting of the seek
people out of Afghanistan it's one a
week and so we're going to see a lot of
things that we don't know about the
second Pier po of is elected and they're
going to be instantly blamed on him by
the environmentalists and the greens and
then he's going to have maybe four years
to mop up what is one god- awful mess
and so you know I can see a scenario
where he's in for 4 years all those
Canadians who have to remortgage which I
believe is about 60% of them are going
to do that lose their houses and it's
going to be like really a rough go for
him and then the Liberals are replacing
so now you know that's a pessimistic
View and I'm not saying that will happen
but man it isn't obvious to me that I'd
like to be in his shoes so like how are
you conceptualizing let's say the next
five years in Canada and and your when's
your next election my next election is
October of 2027 so I have a a bit of
Runway um the i' I'd make a point that
and you've you've touched on you've
touched on and you've hit it I I I
talked to a young analyst who was
looking and tracking at Justin Trudeau's
declining popularity and he also is
tracking the number of mortgage renewals
that are happening each month and it
tracks perfectly the more people who are
having to renew their mortgage and now
face the sticker shock of having double
the mortgage payment because of their
High rates that then they look around
and say who's caused this and the
obvious answer is the guys who've been
in charge for the last nine years who's
got a solution for it and the obvious
answer is Pier POV and so that's very
linked to what it is that they're
experiencing and it's happening in real
time and happening very quickly and it
will probably accelerate I would say
that um am I optimistic about
conservatism I would say that the
conservatives this new generation of
conservative leader whether it's Pierre
or whether it's my colleagues across the
country uh we're we've begun to realize
that aspirationally um the the the blue
color workers and those trades unions
are more aligned with with our
conservative values than they are with
the extreme green uh alignment that
we're seeing out of the Liberals the
green party and and the the Socialists
the new Democrats if I if I was a a
Frontline worker I would say why in the
world would I support any of those
parties because all they're doing is
advocating for job losses they they they
don't want to see these re high paying
resource jobs jobs be successful they
they haven't invested in raising the
parody of of esteem for the skilled
trades and professions the way the way
we talk about it in the conservative
movement and part of the reason that we
do is that is that we've seen the
pathway that kids were told kids were
told well graduate from high school go
to university and get a bachelor degree
and then after that get a masters then
after that get a PhD and then you will
be the highest uh paid uh workers in
society because the more education you
have the the more the more you're you're
going to get paid and and what has
happened in fact well those kids who'
have gone down that pathway end up with
one or $200,000 wor a student loan debt
and now they're in their late 30s and
trying to get out of the workforce and
their degree isn't as valued as much as
they were led to believe it was going to
be and now they're trying to get married
and get a home and now the home prices
have escalated and so now they have to
put off having kids because they can't
afford to have kids pay a mortgage and
pay off their student loan debt but
there's another way you can actually
encourage kids who are practical and
want to do something with their hands
and want to do some meaningful work in
the resource sector go out get dual
Credit in high school maybe have a
couple of years at a a trades in a
trades program you start working right
away making 60 to in some cases these
jobs are $200,000 a year you become an
immediate taxpayer you pay off your debt
you have the ability to to buy a home or
build a home because you depending on
the profession that you go into then you
can get get married you can have kids
you can buy your house you can afford
your life it's a different vision and I
that's why I think that that we
understand a lot more about how vitally
important those high-paying resource
jobs are is it is it's not just about e
economy it it's about human flourishment
it's about being able to live the life
you want to live and most of us we just
want to find our lifemate partner uh be
able to to get married be able to have
kids be able to take care of families
take vacations go camping and and do
those kinds of things that that uh when
we look back to our own childhood seem
to be be be getting further and further
Out Of Reach but I think that they're
linked that's why I think the approach
that Doug Ford has taken and the even in
the approach in the United States where
the Republicans realize that the the the
the Frontline bluecolor workers have
have way more in common with the
conservative side of the spectrum these
days than the ideological side that
we're seeing in the in the in the
extreme green movement that is
influencing all the progressive
parties so I've been thinking about
messaging on the conservative front for
quite a while and maybe that's what
we'll talk about on The Daily wire side
at least to some degree and you know so
I'm going to go down into the bottom of
things for a moment so I've been writing
a book recently on the stories of the
Old Testament and partly because I think
that what's at the basis of the current
culture war that besets us is actually a
religious battle fundamentally it's a
battle of first principles and that's
what a religious war is it's a battle of
first principles and there's a very
interesting representation of the Divine
in the Old Testament in particular in
the Old Testament and God is portrayed
in the Old Testament as something like
the dynamic between
conscience and
calling and so you see the voice of
conscience emerge in the story of Elijah
for example who's a prophet that appears
with Christ when he's transfigured on
the mount and you see the idea of
calling in the story of Abraham
who's called to the adventure of his
life and also in the story of Moses
who's spoken to by the spirit of the
burning bush before he becomes a leader
so there's this Dynamic and it's a
interesting dynamic because it maps onto
the political domain almost perfectly so
conservatives are
conscientious and Liberals are open and
open people are creative and
entrepreneurial they invite and
conscientious people they draw the lines
they draw the borders you know now the
problem for the conservative types who
are conscientious is that it's much
easier to appeal to young people with a
vision and conservatives are very bad at
propagating a vision to young people and
so that void is being filled by the
environmentalists on the leftist side
because they offer young people an easy
Pathway to moral virtue and to sort of
planetary messianism right it's like
Ally yourself with the marginal
celebrate the environment and your work
is done right and which is a really
appalling it's a really appalling thing
to teach young people because their work
hasn't even begun but it is an easy out
whereas the conservatives are always
saying no don't do this don't do that
don't do this don't do that and that is
the voice of conscience but you know you
touched on the possibility for the
conservatives to offer something that's
much more in keeping with the vision and
at minimum that's the pleasures and
responsibilities of the typical upwards
driving say middle class life that's
characterized the American dream it's
like that's not so bad graduate find
something useful to do become an
apprentice let's say so that you can
actually make some money find yourself a
long-term stable monogamous partner have
some children right at minimum you've
got a life going there the the basics of
a life and if you can add some
additional Adventure on top of that so
much the better